Code Book 
=========
...for the data set generated by the script "run_analysis.R".
    
"run_analysis.R" was written for course project of the June 2014 offering of the Coursera/JHU course "Getting and Cleaning Data".

The original source data processed by this script is described in the
README.txt file that accompanies the [data
set](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).
As described in this README.txt file, the data is partitioned into test and
training sets.  Each of these comprises multiple files that can be merged
column-wise so that each row represents a subset of the measured and computed
values for one experiment subject and one activity and the complete set of
values for one subject and activity spans multiple rows.

The run_analysis.R script first performs the column-wise merging for each of
the 2 data sets test and train and then combines them row-wise into one long
and wide data set.  The script then groups the observations by subject and
activity and summarizes the group by calculating averages for only the mean and
standard deviation variables.  This produces a tidy data set with a complete
set of values (66 feature variables) for a given subject and activity.  The
script writes the tidy data set to a text file "avgs-by-subject-activity.txt".

The 66 feature variables are a subset of those listed in the "features.txt" file 
and described in "features_info.txt" included with the UCS HAR Datasets.  The
feature variable names have been edited to be valid R variable names with the
following substitions:
  * "-" is replaced with "."
  * "()" is deleted
Each of the 66 subset feature variables names is also prepended with the letter
"a" to indicate that the values represent averages.
The resulting names are used as column names in the tidy data set.

Here's an example of a feature name before and after the 3 transformations described above

|       before      |       after      |
--------------------|-------------------
| tBodyAcc-mean()-X | atBodyAcc.mean.X |


The following variables are included in the final "tidy data set" 

* subject
* activity
* atBodyAcc.mean.X
* atBodyAcc.mean.Y
* atBodyAcc.mean.Z
* atBodyAcc.std.X
* atBodyAcc.std.Y
* atBodyAcc.std.Z
* atGravityAcc.mean.X
* atGravityAcc.mean.Y
* atGravityAcc.mean.Z
* atGravityAcc.std.X
* atGravityAcc.std.Y
* atGravityAcc.std.Z
* atBodyAccJerk.mean.X
* atBodyAccJerk.mean.Y
* atBodyAccJerk.mean.Z
* atBodyAccJerk.std.X
* atBodyAccJerk.std.Y
* atBodyAccJerk.std.Z
* atBodyGyro.mean.X
* atBodyGyro.mean.Y
* atBodyGyro.mean.Z
* atBodyGyro.std.X
* atBodyGyro.std.Y
* atBodyGyro.std.Z
* atBodyGyroJerk.mean.X
* atBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y
* atBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z
* atBodyGyroJerk.std.X
* atBodyGyroJerk.std.Y
* atBodyGyroJerk.std.Z
* atBodyAccMag.mean
* atBodyAccMag.std
* atGravityAccMag.mean
* atGravityAccMag.std
* atBodyAccJerkMag.mean
* atBodyAccJerkMag.std
* atBodyGyroMag.mean
* atBodyGyroMag.std
* atBodyGyroJerkMag.mean
* atBodyGyroJerkMag.std
* afBodyAcc.mean.X
* afBodyAcc.mean.Y
* afBodyAcc.mean.Z
* afBodyAcc.std.X
* afBodyAcc.std.Y
* afBodyAcc.std.Z
* afBodyAccJerk.mean.X
* afBodyAccJerk.mean.Y
* afBodyAccJerk.mean.Z
* afBodyAccJerk.std.X
* afBodyAccJerk.std.Y
* afBodyAccJerk.std.Z
* afBodyGyro.mean.X
* afBodyGyro.mean.Y
* afBodyGyro.mean.Z
* afBodyGyro.std.X
* afBodyGyro.std.Y
* afBodyGyro.std.Z
* afBodyAccMag.mean
* afBodyAccMag.std
* afBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean
* afBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std
* afBodyBodyGyroMag.mean
* afBodyBodyGyroMag.std
* afBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean
* afBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std
